# Integrated Gradients
Python implementation of integrated gradients (https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.01365). The algorithm "explains" a prediction of a Keras-based deep learning model by approximating Shapley values and assigning them to the input sample features. 

# Usage

Here is a minimal working example on UCI Iris data

``` Python
from IntegratedGradients import *
from keras.layers import Dense
from keras.layers.core import Activation

X = np.array([[float(j) for j in i.rstrip().split(",")[:-1]] for i in open("iris.data").readlines()][:-1])
Y = np.array([0 for i in range(100)] + [1 for i in range(50)])

model = Sequential([
    Dense(1, input_dim=4),
    Activation('sigmoid'),
])
model.compile(optimizer='sgd', loss='binary_crossentropy')
model.fit(X, Y, epochs=300, batch_size=10, validation_split=0.2, verbose=0)

ig = integrated_gradients(model)
ig.explain(X[0])
==> array([-0.25757075, -0.24014562,  0.12732635,  0.00960122])
```

The above example is on a Sequential model but this module works on Keras generic models as well.

# How does it work?

Integrated gradients algorithm work by estimating the Shapley values for all features of an input sample. Here is a quote from Wikipedia explaining what it is: "The Shapley value is a solution concept in cooperative game theory. It was named in honour of Lloyd Shapley, who introduced it in 1953. To each cooperative game it assigns a unique distribution (among the players) of a total surplus generated by the coalition of all players. (Wikipedia)". Frankly speaking, the algorithm will calculate how much the difference between each pair of pixels from current and default input (e.g. all black pixels for images) affects prediction. If the difference in a pixel changes the prediction a lot, it means that the pixel is very "important" for making the prediction.

# Examples with MNIST.

Coming soon.


Email me at hiranumn at cs dot washington dot edu for questions.
